The room was warm and clean, the curtains drawn, the two table lamps
alight-hers and the one by the empty chair opposite. On the sideboard
behind her, two tall glasses, soda water, whiskey. Fresh ice cubes in the
Thermos bucket.
Mary Maloney was waiting for her husband to come in from work.
Now and again she would glance up at the clock, but without anxiety, merely
to please herself with the thought that each minute gone by made it nearer
the time when he would come. There was a slow smiling air about her, and
about everything she did. The drop of a head as she bent over her sewing
was curiously tranquil. Her skin -for this was her sixth month with child-had
acquired a wonderful translucent quality, the mouth was soft, and the eyes,
with their new placid look, seemed larger darker than before. When the clock
said ten minutes to five, she began to listen, and a few moments later,
punctually as always, she heard the tires on the gravel outside, and the car
door slamming, the footsteps passing the window, the key turning in the
lock. She laid aside her sewing, stood up, and went forward to kiss him as
he came in.
“Hullo darling,” she said.
“Hullo darling,” he answered.
She took his coat and hung it in the closet. Then she walked over and made
the drinks, a strong one for him, a weak one for herself; and soon she was
back again in her chair with the sewing, and he in the other, opposite,
holding the tall glass with both hands, rocking it so the ice cubes tinkled
against the side.
For her, this was always a blissful time of day. She knew he didn’t want to
speak much until the first drink was finished, and she, on her side, was
content to sit quietly, enjoying his company after the long hours alone in the

house. She loved to luxuriate in the presence of this man, and to feel-
almost as a sunbather feels the sun-that warm male glow that came out of

him to her when they were alone together. She loved him for the way he
sat loosely in a chair, for the way he came in a door, or moved slowly across
the room with long strides. She loved the intent, far look in his eyes when

2
they rested in her, the funny shape of the mouth, and especially the way he
remained silent about his tiredness, sitting still with himself until the whiskey
had taken some of it away.
“Tired darling?”
“Yes,” he said. “I’m tired,” And as he spoke, he did an unusual thing. He
lifted his glass and drained it in one swallow although there was still half of
it, at least half of it left. She wasn’t really watching him, but she knew what
he had done because she heard the ice cubes falling back against the bottom
of the empty glass when he lowered his arm. He paused a moment, leaning
forward in the chair, then he got up and went slowly over to fetch himself
another.
“I’ll get it!” she cried, jumping up.
“Sit down,” he said.
When he came back, she noticed that the new drink was dark amber with
the quantity of whiskey in it.
“Darling, shall I get your slippers?”
“No.”
She watched him as he began to sip the dark yellow drink, and she could
see little oily swirls in the liquid because it was so strong.
“I think it’s a shame,” she said, “that when a policeman gets to be as senior
as you, they keep him walking about on his feet all day long.”
He didn’t answer, so she bent her head again and went on with her sewing;
but each time he lifted the drink to his lips, she heard the ice cubes clinking
against the side of the glass.
“Darling,” she said. “Would you like me to get you some cheese? I haven’t
made any supper because it’s Thursday.”
“No,” he said.
“If you’re too tired to eat out,” she went on, “it’s still not too late. There’s
plenty of meat and stuff in the freezer, and you can have it right here and
not even move out of the chair.”

3
Her eyes waited on him for an answer, a smile, a little nod, but he made no
sign.
“Anyway,” she went on, “I’ll get you some cheese and crackers first.”
“I don’t want it,” he said.
She moved uneasily in her chair, the large eyes still watching his face. “But
you must eat! I’ll fix it anyway, and then you can have it or not, as you
like.”
She stood up and placed her sewing on the table by the lamp.
“Sit down,” he said. “Just for a minute, sit down.”
It wasn’t till then that she began to get frightened.
“Go on,” he said. “Sit down.”
She lowered herself back slowly into the chair, watching him all the time
with those large, bewildered eyes. He had finished the second drink and
was staring down into the glass, frowning.
“Listen,” he said. “I’ve got something to tell you.”
“What is it, darling? What’s the matter?”
He had now become absolutely motionless, and he kept his head down so
that the light from the lamp beside him fell across the upper part of his face,
leaving the chin and mouth in shadow. She noticed there was a little muscle
moving near the corner of his left eye.
“This is going to be a bit of a shock to you, I’m afraid,” he said. “But I’ve
thought about it a good deal and I’ve decided the only thing to do is tell you
right away. I hope you won’t blame me too much.”
And he told her. It didn’t take long, four or five minutes at most, and she
sat very still through it all, watching him with a kind of dazed horror as he
went further and further away from her with each word.
“So there it is,” he added. “And I know it’s kind of a bad time to be telling
you, but there simply wasn’t any other way. Of course I’ll give you money
and see you’re looked after. But there needn’t really be any fuss. I hope
not anyway. It wouldn’t be very good for my job.”

4
Her first instinct was not to believe any of it, to reject it all. It occurred to
her that perhaps he hadn’t even spoken, that she herself had imagined the
whole thing. Maybe, if she went about her business and acted as though
she hadn’t been listening, then later, when she sort of woke up again, she
might find none of it had ever happened.
“I’ll get the supper,” she managed to whisper, and this time he didn’t stop
her.
When she walked across the room she couldn’t feel her feet touching the
floor. She couldn’t feel anything at all- except a slight nausea and a desire
to vomit. Everything was automatic now-down the steps to the cellar, the
light switch, the deep freeze, the hand inside the cabinet taking hold of the
first object it met. She lifted it out, and looked at it. It was wrapped in
paper, so she took off the paper and looked at it again.
A leg of lamb.
All right then, they would have lamb for supper. She carried it upstairs,
holding the thin bone-end of it with both her hands, and as she went
through the living-room, she saw him standing over by the window with his
back to her, and she stopped.
“For God’s sake,” he said, hearing her, but not turning round. “Don’t make
supper for me. I’m going out.”
At that point, Mary Maloney simply walked up behind him and without any
pause she swung the big frozen leg of lamb high in the air and brought it
down as hard as she could on the back of his head.
She might just as well have hit him with a steel club.
She stepped back a pace, waiting, and the funny thing was that he remained
standing there for at least four or five seconds, gently swaying. Then he
crashed to the carpet.
The violence of the crash, the noise, the small table overturning, helped
bring her out of the shock. She came out slowly, feeling cold and surprised,
and she stood for a while blinking at the body, still holding the ridiculous
piece of meat tight with both hands.
All right, she told herself. So I’ve killed him.
